Access data (#182)
carpentries-incubator/geospatial-python: episodes/05-access-data.md

You will notice that more than 500 scenes match our search criteria. We are however interested in the period right before and after the wildfire of Rhodes. In the following exercise you will therefore have to add a time filter to
our search criteria to narrow down our search for images of that period.

::::::::::::::: instructor

### Extra attention for the following exercise

- The exercise **Exercise: Search satellite scenes using metadata filters** needs extra attention. Its output `search.json` is required for the later episodes. Therefore we recommend:
  - Do not skip this exercise;
  - Think twice when you would like to change the query arguments in this exercise;
  - Make sure all the audience have the output `search.json` before continuing.

> ::::::::::::::::

Reviewer: Super, this was very much needed!

NASA CMR, follow these steps in order to access data using Python:

* Create a NASA Earthdata login account [here](https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov);
* Set up a netrc file with your credentials, e.g. by using [earthaccess](https://earthaccess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/authenticate/), which can be executed interactively in a Jupyter session, and creates a `.netrc` file in your home directory;
* Define the following environment variables in your Jupyter session:

```python
import os
# Note that the cookies.txt file does not exist at this stage
# It is needed by rasterio.open_rasterio function, which calls GDAL in the background

> # GDAL needs the path to the cookies.txt to store cookies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# These variables are needed by rasterio.open_rasterio function, which calls GDAL in the background
# GDAL needs the path where to store cookies
```
